{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Sans{\*\falt Arial};}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 WenQuanYi Zen Hei Sharp;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Lohit Devanagari;}{\f7\fnil\fprq0\fcharset1 Lohit Devanagari;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 Normal;}
{\s15\sbasedon0\snext16\sb240\sa120\keepn\dbch\af5\dbch\af6\afs28\loch\f4\fs28 Heading;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext16\sb0\sa120 Text Body;}
{\s17\sbasedon16\snext17\sb0\sa120\dbch\af7 List;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext18\sb120\sa120\noline\i\dbch\af7\afs24\ai\fs24 Caption;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\noline\dbch\af7 Index;}
}{\info{\creatim\yr2013\mo8\dy18\hr22\min18}{\revtim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\comment LibreOffice}{\vern67174404}}\deftab709
\viewscale100
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse451\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default Style;}}
\formshade\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pgndec\pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Hello everyone, my name is Hsieh, Yu-Wei. Welcome to the course of \u8220\'93Modern Hakka Music-The 1st Episode\u8221\'94\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
In this course, I will start from the traditional Hakka songs, and then get to different Hakka pop music in different periods.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"After learning this course, you will be able to:\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
1. Recognize the differences among folk song, field song, and Hakka music.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch
\u8220\'93}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Ballad\u8221\'94 means \u8220\'93folk song\u8221\'94 which is the collective creation by people and passing from generation to generation. Ballad is like the birth mark of one nation and it tells the spirit and features of people. Its language and lyrics record the life,       culture and historical background back then.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"\u8220\'93Ballad is the finest art and it is the model of perfect creation\u8221\'94 The Hungary composers Bela Bartok said.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The British composer Vaughan Williams Adams also said \u8220\'93All great music is based on folk songs.\u8221\'94\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Every nation would try their best to preserve and pass down their folk songs. In the other words, it represents the soul of one nation and so as Hakka folk songs.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Field song is the songs sung in the mountains or fields. For example, people live by the sea have \u8220\'93chantey\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93fisherman\u8217\'92s song\u8221\'94 and \u8220\'93pastoral\u8221\'94 for nomads.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The origin of Hakka field song came from the situation when Hakka ancestors called their friends from the other mountain or when they felt something in mind. Gradually, the calling had become singing, and finally it turned into Hakka field song.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
These field songs are famous because they are sung in the mountains. Not only Hakka has them, many people in China also sing these field songs such as Zhuang people in Guangxi and people in Hubei. People used to describe Hakka field songs have complex melody, so they are known as \u8220\'93nine tones and eighteen tunes\u8221\'94 as well.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Professor Wu, Rung-Shuen also talked about Hakka field song once and described it as the totem of Hakka music. It is not only the expressive arts toward their life and affection, but also the connection among Hakka people. Without it, Hakka\u8217\'92s culture  would be empty and blank. \u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"When it comes to Hakka music, people always think about Hakka field song. Generally speaking, Hakka music is divided into several parts:\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
(1) The three main tones of ancient field song, Ping-ban, and Shan-Ge-Tzu which have fixed tune with the lyrics of 4 sentences in 7 words.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
(2) Hakka minor such as Shi-Ba-Mo and peach blossoms with fixed tune and lyrics.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
(3) Hakka octave\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
(4) Beiguan\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
(5) Tea picking drama, tricks and Hakka drama\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
(6) Hakka pop music\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
I will assort (1) to (5) to the range of Hakka traditional music. Although this course is based on Hakka pop music, I will still discuss those first:\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Tradition is not ancient or old yet in fact, it means things be passed down and preserved. Normally, they are the iconic or epidemic things in the past. Therefore, the traditional music now is the pop music back then and it links to the life, work,    faith, and celebration in the old time.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Reading from the lyrics and researches of field song, Hakka field song was Hakka\u8217\'92s pop music during Qing Dynasty and the Japanese occupation era. Also, we can tell more or less about their agricultural life style from the lyrics.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Music represents the times. After 1960, Mandarin, and Taiwanese song have evolved, and Hakka composers realized that in order to pass down Hakka culture and express the life of new Hakka generation, they have to adopt new creation as well. Hence,      Hakka pop music movement has started.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"After learning this course, you will be able to:\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
1. Tell the different features of Hakka music in different period\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
2. Know the representatives of Hakka music in different period\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
This so called Hakka pop music is the separation from the traditional songs such as field song and Hakka octave. As far as I know, Hakka pop music can be divided into six major periods as follows:\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The first period is called traditional period which is from Taiwan Restoration Period to 1960. Huang, Lian-Tian, Lai, Bi-Shia, Hsu, Mu-Tzeng, Lo, Lan-Ying, and Chen, Bau-Lian were the most famous singers in that time.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Besides, in the 60s, the radio and TV host Dai, Kuan-Chiun from Pingtung, the singer Ming Lang (Lu, Jin-Shou) who was also from Pingtung, Wen Guang (Lee, Lung-Lin) composed a talking comedy together which was broadcasted on the radio and created a     blast. The show was recorded and published by Huei Mei Record Company in 1965 and became the most popular Hakka comedy \u8220\'93Lee, We-Gu.\u8221\'94\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Born in 1935, Lu, Jin-Shou is the representative in this period. His father is from Penghu and his mother is Hakka from Pingtung. He sung his own song \u8220\'93A stray with an old suitcase\u8221\'94 with the stage name of \u8220\'93Ming Lang\u8221\'94 and published several Hakka pop    music and comedy in Ling Ling and Huei Mei Record Company such as \u8220\'93Two childhoods\u8221\'94 and \u8220\'93Lee, We-Gu.\u8221\'94\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
During the 60s to 80s, there was another music trend except for traditional Hakka music to re-write the lyrics of Huangmei opera, Japanese songs, Holo pop, and Mandarin pop music and turned it into Hakka pop music. Next, let\u8217\'92s listen to the popular    song \u8220\'93Guantanamera\u8221\'94 sung by Lin, Jin-Tang.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
During 1980 to 1987, the album \u8220\'93Love Without Fate\u8221\'94 composed by Wu, Sheng-Chih and Lu, Jin-Shou had started the era of Hakka pop music. In addition to the songs \u8220\'93Love Without Fate\u8221\'94, \u8221\'94Keep forward\u8221\'94, and \u8220\'93Stick\u8221\'94, they edited many Hakka traditional songs  in Western pop music style creating the foundation for the following Hakka creative music. Lu and Wu can be seen as the pioneers of modern Hakka music. \u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Born in 1944 from Dahu, Miaoli, Wu, Sheng-Chih was the Singer and guitarist of Sunshine Band. The famous singer Shiue, Yue was the drummer in the same band. Their band was used to sing all Western songs, but Wu was affected by his friend Lu\u8217\'92s Hakka    club, and inspired by the pop music \u8220\'93Chasing, Rushing, Running and Jumping\u8221\'94 which was edited from a Cantonese song. He was touched that a Cantonese song can be sung in such pop and Western style, so he started to compose new Hakka music. \u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
In the album \u8220\'93Love Without Fate\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93Keep Forward\u8221\'94 was the title song. Next, let\u8217\'92s listen to this famous song together.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"In 1980, the economy grew fast in Taiwan. With many local record company sprang up, lots of Hakka singers became famous such as Deng, Bai-Chen, Lin, Jan-Yi and Liu, Ping-Fang. The famous songs were \u8220\'93Beautiful Lady\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93Hakka Features\u8221\'94 and \u8220\'93One Pole.\u8221\'94   The music characters of  this period are:\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
(1) The tune was very similar to Taiwanese pop music\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
(2) Having the most amounts of creations, and being well-spread in the Hakka villages.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"Now, let\u8217\'92s get to know the most representative composer: Tu, Min-Heng and Lin, Tzu-Yuan.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Born in 1944 from Dahu, Miaoli, Tu, Min-Heng started to compose his first song when studying in Department of Music, Political Warfare College. He entered pop music field in 1970. Served as LP Director in Szu Hai, he produced a whole new Hakka album   with his childhood buddy Wu, Sheng-Chih. Although Wu was died in a car crush, he still devoted himself to finish the album and got the album \u8220\'93The Car of Da Han Gu\u8221\'94 published in 1976. \u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Although Tu was also killed by a car accident in 2000, he is still the most prolific composer by creating thousands of Hakka songs. His masterpieces include \u8220\'93The Car of Da Han Gu\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93Hakka Features\u8221\'94, and \u8220\'93The great article in the past.\u8221\'94\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"Lin, Tzu-Yuan is from Toufen, Miaoli and was originally a very important composer in Mandarin pop music earlier. Strongly invited by Chiou, Chung-Rung, boss of Han Xing Communications Company, he started his career in composing Hakka songs and had    outstanding performance no matter in Hakka pop music or children rhymes. Many popular Hakka folk songs came from his creation. \u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Lin\u8217\'92s real name is Lin, Ting-Chun who published his first song when he was 18 and started his career in composing. He became a professional composer after military. His works are nice, beautiful, and very popular such as the Mandarin song \u8220\'93Love Lock\u8221\'94, the Hakka song \u8220\'93A collar sweater\u8221\'94 and \u8220\'93Beautiful Lady.\u8221\'94 Especially \u8220\'93Beautiful Lady\u8221\'94 was purchased by Chi Ma Record Company in 1992, re-written to a Taiwanese song and sung by Lo, Shih-Feng. Because of this song, the title \u8220\'93Beautiful Lady\u8221\'94 in Hakka has become a popular Hakka sentence in Taiwan. \u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Besides, the song \u8220\'93Gods will response to your wishes\u8221\'94 was composed by Lin, Tzu-Yuan and sung by Deng, Bai-Cheng. Deng was the finalist in 1991 Golden Melody Awards for The Best Male Artist because of this song. And he was the first finalist Hakka male singer back then.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Next, let\u8217\'92s listen to \u8220\'93The Greatest Article in The Past\u8221\'94 and \u8220\'93Gods will response to your wishes\u8221\'94 together.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Influenced by the Taiwanese songs of Chen, Ming-Chang\u8217\'92s \u8220\'93The Drama in The Afternoon\u8221\'94 and Lin, Chiang\u8217\'92s \u8220\'93Keep Forward\u8221\'94, Hakka composers had started to adopt the tune of pop music to fight for the market during 1991 to 1997.  The representatives of this period are:\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Huang, Lian-Yu: Born in 1960 from Miaoli, he was a recorder at first, and then started a band called \u8220\'93New Taiwan Band\u8221\'94 with Chen, Sheng. The band was a hit in Taiwan and their songs were mixed with Mandarin, Taiwanese and Hakka language. Their first   album was published by Rock Records in 1992 which was the first Hakka music sold by the style of mainstream music.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Tsai, Meng-Fu: Born in 1964 from Miaoli, he published the album called \u8220\'93No such a person.\u8221\'94 Half of songs in this album were composed by Huang, Lian-Yu and the other half was finished by Tsai, Meng-Fu, Ya, Ching-Hugan, guitarist of Red Cross Band Jia,  Ming-Shu keyboardist Chen, Rou-Jing and drummer Lo, Ming-Li. Tsai\u8217\'92s thick voice and their pop music impressed many people.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Hard Neck Hakka Band: Found in May, 1994, it is a Hakka rock band leaded by singer Lo, Guo-Li. Their hit songs are: \u8220\'93File Rock Song\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93Modern Dutiful Son\u8221\'94, and \u8220\'93Half Pork Chop\u8221\'94\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Hsieh, Yu-Wei: Born in 1969 from Taipei, his original dream was to become an artist. Affected by the movement of new Hakka folk song, he started to compose Hakka music in 1990. His songs of \u8221\'94Made in Taiwan\u8221\'94 and \u8220\'93Song of Fortune Telling\u8221\'94 won twice      Hakka music champion in National Music Competition and were recorded in his personal album published by Ruei Shing Records Co. in 1992 and UFO (Taiwan) Record Co. in 1995.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Next, let\u8217\'92s listen to the representative songs of this period: \u8220\'93No Such Person\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93Love Like Sand\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93One Peer\u8221\'94, \u8220\'9318-year-old girl\u8221\'94 and \u8220\'93Ho Chen.\u8221\'94\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
This period is called homesick period during 1997 to 2000. Influenced by the movement of \u8220\'93Hakka Sound\u8221\'94 promoted by Hakka Trend Magazine known as Hakka Magazine now, Hakka people established Taiwan Hakka Radio in 1994. The participants in the musical   tour \u8220\'93Hakka Sound\u8221\'94 held by the radio in 1996 and 1997 included composers Yen, Chih-Wen, Chen, Yung-Tao, Hsieh, Yu-Wei, and Lee, Yi-Fan.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Another Hakka movement targeted mainly at social movement combined by local archivists from Chiao Gung Band (Former Guan Tzu Music Pit) and Love Mino Association. The spirit for loving their hometown and protecting their homeland was very impressive.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Yen, Chih-Wen is from Sinpi, Pingtung who graduated from Department of Arts, NTNU. He joined Moral Reformer Choir during college because of his love toward music and served as an art teacher for a few years. Then, he furthered his study in Berklee     College of Music, USA. After graduating, he went back to Taiwan working as a post-producer and produced many albums for several famous singers. He tried to compose Hakka song after working the music of movie \u8220\'93Good Men, Good Women\u8221\'94 directed by Hou      Hsiao-Hsien. He established \u8220\'93Mountain Dog Band\u8221\'94 in 1997 and was the finalist of The Best Hakka Singer in 2003 Golden Melody Awards. His representative songs are \u8220\'93I will teach you how to sing a field song\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93Boss Mountain Dog\u8221\'94, and \u8220\'93A Shu Gu\u8217\'92s Grocery  Store.\u8221\'94\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"The album \u8220\'93The times before\u8221\'94 produced by Chen, Yung-Tao in Nov. 1997 was loved by many Hakka people. Also, his album is the first one all sung by Hakka tone.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Chen\u8217\'92s hometown is at Kansai, Hsinchu. He loves nature and originally engaged in pottery and environmental conservation related works. After writing a song to his grandfather in his 40s, he started the career in composing Hakka songs. His music was    very popular and favored by many people. Everyone feels touched by listening to his voice and the lyrics. It feels just like returning back to the childhood memory in Hakka village. \u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Chiao Gung Band\u8217\'92s music is classified as the new Hakka folk song combined with modern melody and based on traditional tune by using the traditional Chinese instruments such as gongs, drums, suona horn, and moon guitar.  The band won two major prizes   of The Best Non-Pop Music Composer Award and The Best Non-Pop Music Producer Award in 2000 Golden Melody Awards. However, it was a shame that the band dismissed in the summer of 2003. The singer Lin, Sheng-Shiang went solo, and other members formed    The Hohak band. Both of them have great performance afterwards. \u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Please click the button and listen together to the representative songs of this period:  \u8220\'93I will teach you how to sing a field song\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93A Shu Gu\u8217\'92s Grocery store\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93The river\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93Childhood\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93Sound of Wailing\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93Chrysanthemum Night March\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93Take a look,  girl\u8221\'94, \u8220\'937 Morning\u8221\'94, and \u8220\'93Fooling Around.\u8221\'94\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"It comes to the period from 2000 till now. After 2000, electronic music has become very popular. In order to encourage people to create more music, Hsieh, Yu-Wei formed a company called Soundera.com with friends and published their first electronic   Hakka music album \u8220\'93Hakka Hip-Hop.\u8221\'94 In the next year, Liu Shao-Shi produced the second electronic Hakka music album \u8220\'93The Wild Hakka\u8221\'94 which won The Best Hakka Singer and The Best Producer in 2003 Golden Melody Awards. \u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Liu is from Dongshih, Taiwan, and most of his music was sung by Dapu tone. He is also the person in charge of Future Music Studio and founder of Mad Music. Com. He encountered MIDI in 19 year olds and specialized in Synthesizer. He has served as the   keyboardist in the famous bands such as Metal Kids, Sphnix, and Magic Eye and produced many music albums for several famous singers. \u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Followed by the establishment of Hakka Affairs, Executive Yuan and the launch of Hakka TV, many Hakka musicians have broader space to perform than before. Hakka culture has become popular and attracted many young people to get involved such as Lee, Yi-Fan, Dong Dong, Tzeng, Ya-Chun, and Lo, Sze-Rung.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Please click the button and listen together to the representative songs of this period: \u8220\'93The Coffee Shop in San Francisco\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93Party of Field Song\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93True Love\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93and Express Your Love\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93The Direction.\u8221\'94\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"After 2000, new Hakka music has showed diversified styles in hopes that the young Hakka people and even non-Hakka people can join the creation of local music and Hakka music.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Look forward to see new Hakka culture and new century of Taiwan developed under the evolution of modern, fresh, specialization, diversity, and profundity.\u13\'0d}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"\u13\'0d}
\par }
