William Kendall's Story

William Kendall's parents had a successful farm, so he was learning about the 
business of food from childhood. He later became a lawyer and a banker and this 
helped him learn about business practices.

His wife had also inherited a farm, but she and her family knew nothing about 
farming. Helping her family running the farm, he learned how to cook. He 
enjoyed making soup. He thought selling fresh soup would be a good idea. He 
thought fresh soup would be popular, and he could make a lot of money, because 
it tastes better than soup in a can.

A company which also had the idea of selling fresh soup contacted him and he 
started working there. After some years he became the CEO of the company, 
called the New Covent Garden Soup Company. He stayed there for nine years. And 
sales went from two million pounds to more than 20 million pounds.

When Kendall saw that the New Covent Garden Soup Company had become successful 
and there was little for him to do, he decided he wanted to do something else. 
But it was difficult for him to find someone to buy the business from him. 
People realized that the company was successful because he was in control. They 
thought that if someone else took over the company, it wouldn't be as 
successful as it had been before.

It took him two years to get a shareholder of the New Covent Garden Soup 
Company to buy the company. The shareholder was only willing to take over the 
New Covent Garden Soup Company if William Kendall joined this other company.

While he was at the New Covent Garden Soup Company, the company started 
marketing organic soups, soups made from vegetables grown without any farm 
chemicals, in addition to soups made from ordinary materials treated with farm 
chemicals.

These organic soups were very popular. Kendall realized that lots of people 
wanted to eat food that was organic and made from natural, unpolluted 
ingredients. He stopped using farm chemicals on his own farm and with the money 
he made selling his share of the New Covent Garden Soup Company he bought Green 
and Black Chocolate from Craig Sams, a very strong supporter of organic foods. 
Green and Black Chocolate was completely organic. It had no farm chemicals.

Green and Black Chocolate was very popular with people who only ate organic 
foods. But Kendall could see that everyone was concerned about healthy food and 
he believed that Green and Black would become more and more popular in the 
future.

When he took over Green and Black, the company had sales of two million pounds. 
When the company was sold to a very big chocolate company, six years later, it 
had sales of twenty-two million pounds.

Planning to sell Green and Black

William Kendall didn't believe in organic foods when he was young. But he saw 
the success of organic soups and Green and Black Chocolate and that interested 
him. He realized that people wanted to be connected to the food they eat. They 
wanted to know about the food they eat. They wanted to have a personal 
relationship with the food they eat and the people who grow it.

People who eat organic food feel they are connected to the food because they 
are eating food which is pure and does not have chemicals added to it. They 
feel they know this food and the people who grow it better. It feels more like 
real food.

When he took over Green and Black, he had to think about what would happen if 
Green and Black, which was organic, became very popular. Green and Black was 
already very popular with people who were strong supporters of organic food 
like its founder, Craig Sams, but not very popular with people who normally 
didn't think much about organic food. They didn't know about the chocolate, or 
felt it was different and strange.

But William Kendall was expecting that everyone would start buying the 
chocolate. When it became very popular, he thought he would want to sell his 
share in it and start another business.

What he did was get Cadbury's, a very big chocolate company, but which does not 
produce organic chocolate, to buy five percent of the company's shares. Some 
people said Green and Black should not have a relationship with a non-organic 
chocolate company. They thought it was a bad idea, but he thought it was a good 
idea, because small companies like Green and Black need to cooperate with big 
companies, like Cadbury's, rather than compete with them. He thought if they 
compete with them, they must lose.

Only a very big company would be able to buy Green and Black if its chocolates 
became very        +popular. And it would be easier for a company with a 
cooperative relationship with Green and     +Black to buy it than a company 
with a competitive relationship.

# To sell his company's chocolates, he had to get people to taste the 
# chocolate, rather than tell them it was organic. People who do not think much 
# about organic food are more concerned about taste. People who buy organic 
# food already bought the chocolate. They already knew about it. 

Then, in only six years, sales rose from two million pounds to twenty-two 
million pounds.

When Cadbury's bought Green and Black, a lot more people who believed in 
organic food were very unhappy. But William Kendall was very happy, because he 
had made a lot of money and his plan had worked.

He had involved a very big company in his business from the start, and they 
were very willing to take over the business when it made a lot of money.

Owning plans

Teresa Graham said in the most successful businesses, all the people at the 
company feel they are part of the plan. Everyone understands what the company 
is trying to do and everyone believes what they do helps the company achieve 
its goals.

She says this is really important and one of the reasons for their success.

But how do you get everyone in the company to feel that they are an important 
part of the company's plans? You can't just tell people what the plan is and 
expect them to follow the plan. If you tell people your plan for your business, 
Teresa Graham says only some people will follow the plan. The best employees 
will not follow the plan.

She says businesses need to involve everyone in the company in the discussion 
and creation of their plans. She says the way to make sure everyone plays their 
part in achieving the company's goals is to make sure everyone takes part in 
creating the plans.

Everyone needs to understand how what they do helps the company achieve its 
goals, and everyone needs to have personal goals, which they believe in and are 
connected to the company's goals. When everyone knows what the company is 
trying to do, and everyone is excited about helping, the company has lots more 
power.

This only happens when people feels they played a a part in developing the 
company's plans.

William Kendall has something similar, but different, to say about the role of 
the company's leaders in managing people. He says the company's owners need to 
give their managers lots of freedom. He says the company's owners need to find 
skilled managers and let them do their job the way the managers want to.

The owners shouldn't be telling their managers how to do their job. The owners 
have to concentrate on growing the business, and thinking about how the company 
can develop new plans, not about how people should be carrying out the plans 
the company has already developed.

When William Kendall first was a businessman at the New Covent Garden Soup 
Company, he said they made many mistakes. He said they tried to do everything 
themselves. Later he said they brought in a group of skilled managers to do 
marketing, production and administration at the company. This took pressure off 
the owners and they could spend their time thinking of what the company should 
do next.

He says managers should not be given too much freedom, but he also said 
sometimes too much freedom is better than too little freedom.

He says at the New Covent Garden Soup Company he learned how to give people a 
lot of freedom, but not too much freedom. The problem is getting everyone in 
the business excited about reaching the company's goals and making sure they 
only do what they are supposed to do to at the same time. getting everyone 
excited about helping the company reach its goals, 
