{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Sans{\*\falt Arial};}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 WenQuanYi Zen Hei Sharp;}{\f6\froman\fprq2\fcharset136 ????{\*\falt PMingLiU};}{\f7\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Lohit Devanagari;}{\f8\fnil\fprq0\fcharset1 Lohit Devanagari;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1028\dbch\af0\afs24\alang1025\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033 Normal;}
{\*\cs15\snext15 \u38928\'3f\u35373\'3f\u27573\'3f\u33853\'3f\u23383\'3f\u22411\'3f;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext17\ql\nowidctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af5\langfe1028\dbch\af7\afs28\alang1025\loch\f4\fs28\lang1033 Heading;}
{\s17\sbasedon0\snext17\ql\nowidctlpar\sb0\sa120\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1028\dbch\af0\afs24\alang1025\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033 Text Body;}
{\s18\sbasedon17\snext18\ql\nowidctlpar\sb0\sa120\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1028\dbch\af8\afs24\alang1025\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033 List;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\ql\nowidctlpar\sb120\sa120\noline\ltrpar\cf0\i\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1028\dbch\af8\afs24\alang1025\ai\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033 Caption;}
{\s20\sbasedon0\snext20\ql\nowidctlpar\noline\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1028\dbch\af8\afs24\alang1025\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033 Index;}
}{\info{\title                   AUTOBIOGRAPHY}{\author S.xp}{\creatim\yr2013\mo8\dy28\hr0\min15}{\author S.xp}{\revtim\yr2013\mo8\dy28\hr19\min39}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\comment LibreOffice}{\vern67174404}}\deftab480
\viewscale100
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse451\pgwsxn11906\pghsxn16838\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\pgdscnxt0 Default Style;}}
\formshade{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16838\paperw11906\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn11906\pghsxn16838\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pgndec\pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1028\dbch\af0\afs24\alang1025\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\dbch\af0\rtlch \ltrch
                  }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
AUTOBIOGRAPHY}
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1028\dbch\af0\afs24\alang1025\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
\tab Tung-Ching David Tung is my name. I was born on Sept. 20 in 1957. I graduated from Fu-Jen University and my major was in English. There are nine persons in my family. My father is a retired officer and my mother is a typical housekeeper. I have one brother and five sisters. They all got married. I am the youngest one in my family and I had already got married right now. I have one son and one daughter. My son is studying in junior high school and my daughter is studying at National Hsinchu Girl\u8217\'92 Senior High School right now.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1028\dbch\af0\afs24\alang1025\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1028\dbch\af0\afs24\alang1025\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
\tab I grew up in a farm family. I usually helped my parents to work in the field in the whole year while I was a child. Therefore, I have got strong influence from my family. It is no doubt that diligence, endurance, and responsibility are all my characteristics.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1028\dbch\af0\afs24\alang1025\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Of course, I am an easy-going person and I can deal with colleagues harmoniously in any situations. I believe in team work that offers the magic power.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1028\dbch\af0\afs24\alang1025\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1028\dbch\af0\afs24\alang1025\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
\tab I completed all my studies in the south of Taiwan except university. I graduated from Fu-Jen Catholic University in English Department. I have been working at the export trading company since I left school. During that time, fortunately I entered the largest trading company in Taiwan-Collins Co. Ltd. I often had to engage in business with buyers who came from all over the world. One year later, I was sent to US for training at six branch offices separately. I stayed in New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, Dallas, Boston and the head office \u8211\'96New Jersey. Thus, I had a very deep impression about major cities in US. }
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1028\dbch\af0\afs24\alang1025\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1028\dbch\af0\afs24\alang1025\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
\tab After returning to Taiwan, I strongly felt that I needed to strengthen my English proficiency that could negotiate with foreign buyers smoothly. Then I resolutely gave up my work and made a decision to study in US. While I waited for my I-20, I was working as a sales manager in one of the trading company in Hong Kong. In 1994, I got the Master degree in the long run. Although my advisor highly persuaded me to continue to study PhD program, I surrendered finally because I had no financial aid.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1028\dbch\af0\afs24\alang1025\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\ql\nowidctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1028\dbch\af0\afs24\alang1025\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
From1999 to 2013, I have already taught at Asia-Pacific Institute of Creativity (Chin-Min College) for 14 years. During that period, I served as a team leader, such as Director of the Department of applied foreign languages. I delayed my doctoral studies program because I was busy with administrative work. In order to enrich my own professional competence for English, I tried my best to attend English symposia held by various institutions. Although I am in middle age right now, I still hope I can make my dream come true to get PhD in the near future.}
\par }